How to Launch: Use the command node server.js on the command line after navigating to the folder
in which the server.js file is located. For this submission it should be the project folder. This should launch the server. To see the website, navigate to http://localhost:4131/. This will bring you to the homepage of the site. 

Information needed to test: To test much of the main functionality(generating/deleting/editing posts),
an account will need to be created. To do this, simply click the "User" symbol which will bring you to the signin 
page. Upon reaching the signin page, click the first white link which is described to lead to a sign up page. Input
a username and password and press sign up, upon which you have an account in the database and can now generate/edit/delete
posts. Specifically, editing and deleting posts that your account has generated. Users that 
are not signed in can still browse posts as well as use the feature to sort them in their desired way. However, without
an account posts cannot actually be interacted with. Note that attempting to access the make post/your posts page without
an account will also lead back to the signin page. 

// some sample accounts to try signin with(not necessarily needed, can also just signup with other accounts then signout to test sign in)
Username: testaccount1 password: testaccount1password
Username: testaccount2 password: testaccount2password
Username: testaccount3 password: testaccount3password

Important Urls: These are mostly urls that will send get requests to the main pages of the server

What features were implemented:

User Accounts: User signin/signup was implemented with express-session. The bcrypt software library was used for secure hashed passwords. Users have several exclusive features available to them, including posting, as well as liking, editing, and deleting posts. Much of the functionality on the site needs an account to access, although posts can still be viewed without an account. Login status is tracked with the sidebar, which displays the username if someone is logged in and displays a signin button if someone is logged out.

URLS: '/signin' and '/signup' anybody can access, even someone logged in. Navigating to these pages as someone logged in will however send you to the signout endpoint. '/signout' will logout the current user

Text Post Generation: After a user has signed in, they can navigate to the /makeposts page with the url or the nav bar. There is a text
box where one can generate a post of 100 chars or less, and a submit button which will upload the post and redirect the user to the page
with their posts, where the new post will be viewable. 
URL: '/makepost' needs an account

Text Post Viewing: The text posts can be viewed from urls '/' and '/yourposts'. The '/yourposts' url needs a signed in user to access, otherwise the user will be redirected to the signin page. Posts are divided into pages, with 5 posts per page. To navigate between pages, "previous" and "next" links are at the bottom of the page as needed. The first page will only have a next url, and the final page will only have a previous(unless all posts are on one page, then no link will be there as there is only a single page). The posts will, by default, be ordered by how recently they were posted, in descending order. So most recent posts are on top by default. There is a dropdown which, when changed, will resort the posts based on the value. Post ordering is not preserved between pages. If one is using the liked post view on page 1 and navigates to page 2, the recent post view will be enabled again, and the liked post view will need to be manually chosen. Any users, logged in or anonymous, can view all posts. 
URL: '/' and '/yourposts' the second needs an account

Post Liking: Logged in users have access to the like mechanism. There is a like button displayed for all posts, which logged in users can use to give a post a like. Upon clicking "like", a post's like count will be increased, both visually and in the database. Liking/displaying new post likes does not reload the page, as it is done with fetch. 
No url needed to access(in server it is '/posts/likepost')

Post Editing: Users who are logged in have the ability to edit their own posts. Only posts generated by the user can be edited, not those by other users. Editing is done by using a form with a textarea and submit button, which replaces the post content and other buttons when the edit button is clicked. Upon submitting the edit, the post will look as it did before, but with the additional/updated content. Editing does not reload the page.
No url needed to access(in server it is '/posts/updatepost')

Post Deletion: Users who are logged in have the ability to delete their own posts. Only posts generated by the user can be deleted, not those by other users. Deleting is done by clicking a button, which will delete the post from the database and the display. Deleting does not reload the page. 
No url needed to access(in server it is '/posts/updatepost')

Trending Box: On the pages displaying posts, there is an additional box which shows up to 3 trending posts. This is done by using the result of a select query and dynamically generating the box rows. 
No specific url, part of the viewing posts

Account Statistics: If a user is logged in, the sign in button is replaced by an account button displaying the username of the user that is logged in. Upon clicking this button, the user will be brought to a page showing the number of likes their account has. 
URL: '/account' needs an account to access

NOTE THAT THESE PAGES ARE BLOCKED BY SIGN-IN, AND USERS HAVE TO BE LOGGED IN TO ACCESS THEM:
/yourposts
/makepost
/account
/signout
all deleting/liking/editing features

ANY USER CAN ACCESS:
/
/signin
/signup




Attributions: 

FormData was used based on mdn web docs https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData 

Referer was learned about from mdn web docs https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Referer 

Icons for logout, user, etc. from font-awesome https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css  https://fontawesome.com/ 

mysql coalesce https://www.w3schools.com/sql/func_mysql_coalesce.asp 


Some Design Decisions:

- Post likes/generation. There had to be a decision on whether post likes/post edits/post generation is updated for all users or just the user who made the action on that window. The decision made was the latter. It would be somewhat disconcerting for other users reading posts to suddenly have their post shift on the page because of the action of another. 

- Signin/Signup: There isn't really a signup button accessible from the main page, and the nav bar isn't accessible from the 
signup/signin/signout pages. For the former, the signup button was omitted for a couple of reasons. One being the main page would 
be cleaner without it, as the sign up/sign in messages would be very similar. The other is to prioritize users who already have an account. For those who want to make accounts, the signup button is still accessible, just from the signin page. The nav bar not being
accessible from the signup/signin page is also intentional to keep those pages separate from the rest of the site. Something similar
can be seen on sites like amazon. The signup/signin is kept clean and separate from the other pages, while still leaving an avenue
to head back to the home page if needed. 

- Accessing previous page urls for queries: This was mostly a choice between using sessions to store urls and using referer. 
The use of referer was chosen because it was sufficient enough for the situation, as the endpoints that needed it were never going 
to be simply typed in on the url(the weakness of referer) due to the fact that they are only used when something changes in a 
dropdown.

- Reloading: This relates to the first item about posts. There are a few points where reloads could have been implemented(post order change, other users liking, editing, etc.). The choice here was to keep users as separate as possible, but when the user is altering
something themselves they should see the effect immediately. So users changing post order, liking, editing, deleting posts etc. is 
seen immediately on the page without reload. Any other effects that might change data on other users screens are kept to being invisible
until a reload. 

- Post vs Get vs Put: When it came to fetch requests, most were because either update or select queries were needed from the database.
With items that just needed to rearrange elements with a different select, like with the dropdowns, the GET request was initially thought
about but rejected because an endpoint being user visible is unwanted. A PUT request wasn't really needed here because it was not an update, so a POST request was used as an alternative, as it fit others less and in a way data is being "posted" in another format, though no INSERT is used. Either put or post could be used for editing/liking posts in terms of behavior, but post was preferred overall. 


- Liking own Posts: It was decided for users to be able to like their own posts. It seems pretty standard for microblogging sites. 

- Trending posts box: An addition to the front page. The main decision here is another reload choice. The choice was not to reload upon
changes in the trending posts(3 most liked posts) to keep with the principle of users not being affected by others activity unrelated to them. So to see trending posts update(if it has) a page reload is needed. 



